In this section.
There's one last quick thing that I want to mention about the Docker build process.
This is an important thing to understand because it's what gives Docker so much performance whenever
creating a new image.
All right.
So I'm looking at my Docker file right here.
We have our three instructions.
And as you very well know by this point, out of each one of these instructions, we essentially get
a new image.
So from Alpine, we get the Alpine image from the run instruction, we get a temporary image that gets
fed into the CMD instruction, which gives us another temporary image.
So at every structure instruction along the way, we have a file system snapshot and a startup command
for that image.
Now I want to show you something a little bit interesting.
I'm going to go back over to my doctor file and on the run instruction I'm going to add a new one right
underneath it.
I'm going to say run apk, add dash dash update GCSE.
So we're just installing a very random second dependency here.
There's nothing important that you need to know about GCSE.
We're just installing a second dependency.
So I want you to think about what effect this is going to have on our overall flow.
Essentially what it's going to do is add in a new instruction right here that's going to look a little
something like this.
We're going to see a new one.
Let's see how quickly I can do this.
Edit We're going to get our new instruction right there.
It's going to be very similar to the image from the previous step.
And it's going to have a new little program or folder or something inside of it of GCSE.
So essentially it is identical to the previous image, but it has this extra little program that has
been added in.
Let's now flip over to our terminal.
I want to rebuild our image and you're going to notice something kind of interesting.
So back over at my terminal, I'm still inside of my Redis image directory and I'm going to build my
image a second time by running Docker build dot.
All right.
So we're going to very quickly see some installation steps right here as it adds in that additional
package.
But I want to scroll up to the second instruction and I want to point out something interesting up there.
So we still see step one of four right here where we do from Alpine.
You'll notice that we do not see any of that like fetching image stuff that we saw the first time because
we have already fetched the Alpine image.
We've already downloaded it from the Docker hub, and so we don't have to go and download it a second
time.
Now, the interesting thing that I want to show you, and this is where Docker gets so much of its speed
and performance from when building an image, you'll notice that during step number two right here,
we do not see any of that stuff around running in blah, blah, blah.
We don't see any fetch, we don't see any installation of dependencies.
Instead, we see a single message that says using cache.
So what this means is that Docker has realized that from the previous step to step number two, nothing
has changed from the last time that we ran Docker build.
In other words, it knows without a doubt that it's going to get the same image from the previous step
because it's the exact same instruction that it was before.
And then for step number two, Docker knows that it has already executed the command apk add update
Redis.
It's already generated an image out of that step.
This image right here and this image has been cached and stored on your local machine.
So rather than going through the process of creating another container out of the alpine image and running
apk add update redis inside that container a second time, it says, You know what, I've already done
this work.
I'm just going to use the image that I generated during the previous step again.
But then after that, Docker correctly sees that there is a new command in play.
And this is not an update, right?
It's an update, TCC.
It sees that there's a new command right here, a new instruction in play.
And so from this point on, it decides, well, you know what, something has changed during the build
process.
We probably can't use our cache anymore.
And from here on out, we have to go through that process of generating a container and running a command
inside the container and taking the snapshot and going through all that stuff again.
Now, the interesting thing about this is that it has now executed run APK Ad GCSE and it has generated
an image out of that instruction right there.
So if we now run Docker, build a third time without making any changes to our Docker file, Docker
is going to correctly see we have made no changes to the Docker file.
None of these steps have changed whatsoever.
And so it's going to use the cached or saved versions of each of these images in building this new one.
Let's do that right now and you're going to see it in action.
So we're going to do Docker, build it a third time.
And you'll notice that bill process went extremely quickly.
So Docker correctly realised that it's already downloaded Alpine.
It's realized that it already ran the run command on top of Alpine.
So it's using the cache version, that image, it knows it's already done the GC, so it's using the
cache version of that and it knows that it's already executed.
Command Right.
A server on top of the output of the GC step.
And so it's using the cache there again.
So the lesson to learn here is that any time that we make a change to our Docker file, we're going
to have to only rerun the series of steps from the change line on down.
As a quick example of that, let's try taking this GC line right here and I'm going to cut it and put
it right above Redis.
So even though we're still taking the Alpine image and adding GC to it and adding Redis to it, the
series of steps have changed.
And so Docker is going to say, okay, well this time we're taking Alpine and first adding in GC scene.
So it will use the cache version of Alpine, but it's not going to have a cached version of the GC ad
to use because the last time that it ran that it added GC only after installing Redis.
So essentially the order of operations is different, so the cache cannot be used.
So I'm going to save this file after moving GC around and we'll try rebuilding our image for a fourth
time.
So I'll do Docker build dot, I'll run that and now you're going to see.
Yep, it has to go through that installation process all over again because the order of operations
have changed.
However, it only needs to rerun the steps from the change line on down, and so we have to rerun the
entire ad cc we rerun the entire ad redirects and we have to rerun the command server.
All right.
So again, if you are not changing your Docker file, that's great because it means that we can use
cache versions for building the image.
But the real lesson to learn here is that if you ever expect to have to change your Docker file, you
always want to put those changes like as far down as possible.
Now for right now, that might sound really confusing, but we're going to very quickly go through another
example in a couple of videos where you'll see that by changing the order of operations inside of our
Docker file can dramatically change how long it takes to rebuild our image.
All right.
So a quick pause right here and we'll catch you in the next section.